=encoding UTF8

=head1 NAME

mkuki - produce, sign, and install a Unified Kernel Image


=head1 SYNOPSIS

mkuki [B<-h|--help>] [B<-v|--verbose>] [B<-k|--kernel> F<path>] [B<-K|--kernelname> I<name>] [B<-u|--ucode> F<path>] [B<-i|--initramfs> F<path>] [B<-s|--splash> F<path>] [B<-c|--cmdline> F<path>] [B<--efistub> F<path>] [B<--no-ucode>] [B<--no-splash>] [B<--sign>] [B<--sign-key> F<path>] [B<--sign-cert> F<path>] [B<--output> F<path>] [B<--no-backup>]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mkuki> will produce a Unified Kernel Image which can be booted directly by a UEFI-capable device, with no need for an intermediate bootloader.

B<mkuki> can also:

- Determine which kernel you are using

- Determine which initramfs you are using

- Determine which microcode image to include

- Include a splash image

- Sign the UKI using B<sbsign>

- Keep a backup of the previous UKI

- Make a sandwich for you


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print help text, then exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Explain what is being done.

=item B<-K>, B<--kernelname> I<name>

The name of the kernel, used to derive other filenames. If omitted, the current kernel will be used.

=item B<-k>, B<--kernel> F<path>

The path to the kernel file. When specifying this option, you must also specify B<--kernelname>. If omitted, F</boot/vmlinuz-$kernelname> will be used.

=item B<-u>, B<--ucode> F<path>

The path to the microcode image. If omitted, B<mkuki> will determine your CPU vendor and locate the right microcode file.

=item B<-i>, B<--initramfs> F<path>

The path to the initramfs image. If omitted, F</boot/initramfs-$kernelname.img> will be used.

=item B<-s>, B<--splash> F<path>

The path to the splash image. Must be a bitmap. If omitted, the one provided by systemd will be used, if it exists; otherwise, a warning will be logged and no splash will be used.

=item B<--no-splash>

Do not use a splash image and silences the warning caused by a missing default splash file.

=item B<-c>, B<--cmdline> F<path>

The path to the file containing the kernel parameters. If omitted, F</etc/kernel/cmdline> will be used, if it exists; otherwise, F</proc/cmdline> will be used.

=item B<--efistub> F<path>

The path to the efistub. If omitted, the one provided by systemd will be used. If it does not exist, the program will fail and you must specify one manually.

=item B<--no-ucode>

Do not add the microcode before the initramfs image. Here be dragons.

=item B<--sign>

Allow the UKI to be used in a Secure Boot-enabled system: sign the resultant UKI using sbsign.

=item B<--sign-key> F<path>

The path to the UEFI signing key. If omitted, F</etc/secureboot/keys/DB.key> will be used.

=item B<--sign-cert> F<path>

The path to the UEFI signing certificate. If omitted, F</etc/secureboot/keys/DB.crt> will be used.

=item B<--output> F<path>

The path to where the UKI will be placed. If omitted, the file will be named F<$distro-$kernel.efi> and will be placed in the current directory. If the file already exists, it will be moved to {,.bak} unless B<--no-backup> is specified.

=item B<--no-backup>

Do not back up the file specified by --output prior to placing the new one there. Here be dragons.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

B<objcopy>, B<sbsign>


=head1 AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT, LICENSE

This program is written by Dirk Kok 2021 and is available under the MIT license.
